WORKSHEET-1

DEEP LEARNING

Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.

1. Which of the following can approximate any function universally (i.e. universal approximators)?
A) Boosted Decision Trees B) Neural Networks
C) Kernel SVM D) All of the above

ANS:B) Neural Networks

2. In which of the following domains we cannot use neural networks?
A) Image Processing B) Speech Processing
C) Fraud Detection D) None of the above

ANS: C) Fraud Detection

3. Rearrange the following steps of a gradient descent algorithm in correct order of their occurrence?
i. Initialize random weight and bias
ii. Repeat the process until you find the best weights of network
iii. Change weights and biases for each neuron to reduce the error
iv. Calculate error distances between the actual and the predicted value
v. Pass an input through the network and get values from output layer
Choose the correct option:
A) iv – i – iii – v – ii B) v – i – iii – iv –ii
C) i – v – iv – iii – ii D) i – v – iii –iv –ii

ANS: B) v – i – iii – iv –ii

4. What is the full form of RNN?
A) Recurrent Neural Network B) Recursive Neural Network
C) Redundant Neural Network D) Resurrection Neural Network

ANS: A) Recurrent Neural Network

5. What is plasticity in neural networks?
A) input pattern keeps on changing B) input pattern has become static
C) output pattern keeps on changing D) output is static

ANS:A) input pattern keeps on changing

6. What is stability plasticity dilemma?
A) system can neither be stable nor plastic
B) static inputs & categorization can’t be handled
C) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled
D) none of the above

ANS: C) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled

7. Read the following statements:
Statement 1: It is possible to train a network well by initializing all the weights as 0
Statement 2: It is possible to train a network well by initializing biases as 0
Which of the statements given above is true, Choose the correct option?
A) Statement 1 is true while Statement 2 is false
B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false
C) Both statements are true
D) Both statements are false

ANS:B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false

8. Which of the following architecture has feedback connections?
A) Recurrent Neural network B) Convolutional Neural Network
C) Restricted Boltzmann Machine D) simple Artificial Neural Network

ANS:A) Recurrent Neural network 

Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.

9. In training a neural network, you notice that the loss does not decrease in the few starting epochs. The reason
behind it could be
A) Learning Rate is low B) Regularisation parameter is high
C) Regularisation parameter is low D) Stuck at local minima

ANS:	A) Learning Rate is low 
	B) Regularisation parameter is high

10. Which of the following function(s) can be used to impart non – linearity in a neural network?
A) Stochastic Gradient Descent B) Rectified Linear Unit
C) Convolution Function D) Sigmoid Function

ANS: B) Rectified Linear Unit

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.

11. What is Deep Learning?

ANS:Deep learning is a subset of machine learning where artificial neural networks, algorithms inspired by the human brain, learn from large amounts of data.
 Deep learning allows machines to solve complex problems even when using a data set that is very diverse, unstructured and inter-connected.

12. What is reinforcement learning?

ANS:Reinforcement learning is an area of Machine Learning. It is about taking suitable action to maximize reward in a particular situation.
Reinforcement learning (RL) is an area of machine learning concerned with how software agents ought to take actions in an environment in order to maximize the notion of cumulative reward.
Reinforcement learning is one of three basic machine learning paradigms, alongside supervised learning and unsupervised learning.

13. What Are the Differences Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning?

ANS:The most important difference between deep learning and traditional machine learning is its performance as the scale of data increases. When the data is small, deep learning algorithms don't perform that well.
This is because deep learning algorithms need a large amount of data to understand it perfectly.

14. What is a perceptron?

ANS:In machine learning, the perceptron is an algorithm for supervised learning of binary classifiers.It is a type of linear classifier, i.e. a classification algorithm that makes its predictions based on a linear predictor function combining a set of weights with the feature vector.
This algorithm enables neurons to learn and processes elements in the training set one at a time. There are two types of Perceptrons: Single layer and Multilayer. Single layer Perceptrons can learn only linearly separable patterns.

15. What’s the difference between AI and ML?

ANS:Artificial Intelligence is the broader concept of machines being able to carry out tasks in a way that we would consider “smart”. And, Machine Learning is a current application of AI based around the idea that we should really just be able to give machines access to data and let them learn for themselves.
On a broad level, we can differentiate both AI and ML as: AI is a bigger concept to create intelligent machines that can simulate human thinking capability and behavior, whereas, machine learning is an application or subset of AI that allows machines to learn from data without being programmed explicitly.