WORKSHEET
Statistics– WORKSHEET 6

Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

1. Which of the following is the correct formula for total variation?
a) Total Variation = Residual Variation – Regression Variation
b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation
c) Total Variation = Residual Variation * Regression Variation
d) All of the mentioned

ANS:b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation

2. Collection of exchangeable binary outcomes for the same covariate data are called outcomes.
a) random
b) direct
c) binomial
d) none of the mentioned

ANS: c) binomial

3. How many outcomes are possible with bernoulli trial?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) None of the mentioned

ANS: a) 2

4. If Ho is true and we reject it, then it is called:
(a) Type-I error
(b) Type-II error
(c) Standard error
(d) Sampling error

ANS: (a) Type-I error

5. Level of significance is also called:
(a) Power of the test
(b) Size of the test
(c) Level of confidence
(d) Confidence coefficient

ANS: (c) Level of confidence

6. The chance of rejecting a true hypothesis decreases when sample size:
(a) Decreases
(b) Increases
(c) Both of them
(d) None of them

ANS: (d) None of them

7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
(a) Probability
(b) Hypothesis
(c) Causal
(d) None of the mentioned

ANS: (b) Hypothesis

8. What is the purpose of multiple testing in statistical inference?
(a) Minimize errors
(b) Minimize false positives
(c) Minimize false negatives
(d) All of the mentioned

ANS: (d) All of the mentioned

9. Normalized data is centered at and has unit equal to standard deviations of the original data.
(a) 0 (b) 5
(c) 1 (d) 10

ANS: (a) 0

Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.

10. What Is Bayes' Theorem?

ANS:
Bayes' Theorem is a way of finding a probability when we know certain other probabilities.

The formula is:

P(A|B) =  P(A) P(B|A)/P(B) 


Which tells us:	 	how often A happens given that B happens, written P(A|B),
When we know:	 	how often B happens given that A happens, written P(B|A)
 	 	and how likely A is on its own, written P(A)
 	 	and how likely B is on its own, written P(B)

11. What is z-score?

ANS:
Simply put, a z-score (also called a standard score) gives an idea of how far from the mean a data point is. But more technically it’s a measure of how many standard deviations below or above the population mean a raw score is.

A z-score can be placed on a normal distribution curve. Z-scores range from -3 standard deviations (which would fall to the far left of the normal distribution curve) up to +3 standard deviations (which would fall to the far right of the normal distribution curve).
 In order to use a z-score, we need to know the mean μ and also the population standard deviation σ.

12. What is t-test? 

ANS:
A t-test is a type of inferential statistic used to determine if there is a significant difference between the means of two groups, which may be related in certain features. It is mostly used when the data sets, like the data set recorded as the outcome from flipping a coin 100 times, would follow a normal distribution and may have unknown variances. 
A t-test is used as a hypothesis testing tool, which allows testing of an assumption applicable to a population. 

13. What is a percentile?

ANS: Percentile: the value below which a percentage of data falls.
In statistics, a percentile (or a centile) is a type of quantile which divides the given probability distribution, or sample, into 100 equal-sized intervals; this allows the data to be analyzed in terms of percentages. For example, the 20th percentile is the value (or score) below which 20% of the observations are found, and above which 80% are found.

The 25th percentile is also called the first quartile.
The 50th percentile is generally the median (if you’re using the third definition—see below).
The 75th percentile is also called the third quartile.
The difference between the third and first quartiles is the interquartile range.

14. What is ANOVA?

ANS:Analysis of variance (ANOVA) is a collection of statistical models and their associated estimation procedures (such as the "variation" among and between groups) used to analyze the differences among group means in a sample.
The one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) is used to determine whether there are any statistically significant differences between the means of three or more independent (unrelated) groups.

15. How can ANOVA help?

ANS:An ANOVA test is a way to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. In other words, they help to figure out if we need to reject the null hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis. Basically, we're testing groups to see if there's a difference between them.
