WORKSHEET
Statistics– WORKSHEET 4

Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

1. Bernoulli random variables take (only) the values 1 and 0.
a) True
b) False

ANS: a) True

2. Which of the following theorem states that the distribution of averages of iid variables, properly
normalized, becomes that of a standard normal as the sample size increases?
a) Central Limit Theorem
b) Central Mean Theorem
c) Centroid Limit Theorem
d) All of the mentioned

ANS: a) Central Limit Theorem

3. Which of the following is incorrect with respect to use of Poisson distribution?
a) Modeling event/time data
b) Modeling bounded count data
c) Modeling contingency tables
d) All of the mentioned

ANS:  a) Modeling event/time data

4. Point out the correct statement.
a) The exponent of a normally distributed random variables follows what is called the lognormal distribution
b) Sums of normally distributed random variables are again normally distributed even if the
variables are dependent
c) The square of a standard normal random variable follows what is called chi-squared
distribution
d) All of the mentioned

ANS: d) All of the mentioned

5. __________ random variables are used to model rates.
a) Empirical
b) Binomial
c) Poisson
d) All of the mentioned

ANS: c) Poisson

6. 10. Usually replacing the standard error by its estimated value does change the CLT.
a) True
b) False

ANS: b) False

7. 1. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
a) Probability
b) Hypothesis
c) Causal
d) None of the mentioned

ANS: b) Hypothesis

8. 4. Normalized data are centered at ___ and have units equal to standard deviations of the
original data.
a) 0
b) 5
c) 1
d) 10

ANS: a) 0

9. Which of the following statement is incorrect with
respect to outliers?
a) Outliers can have varying degrees of influence
b) Outliers can be the result of spurious or real processes
c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship
d) None of the mentioned

ANS: c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship

Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.

10. What do you understand by the term Normal Distribution?

ANS: Normal distribution, also known as the Gaussian distribution, is a probability distribution that is symmetric about the mean, showing that data near the mean are more frequent in occurrence than data far from the mean. In graph form, normal distribution will appear as a bell curve.
A normal distribution is an arrangement of a data set in which most values cluster in the middle of the range and the rest taper off symmetrically toward either extreme.

11. How do you handle missing data? What imputation techniques do you recommend?
ANS: Data can have missing values for a number of reasons such as observations that were not recorded and data corruption. Handling missing data is important as many machine learning algorithms do not support data with missing values.
With data Missing Completely at Random (MCAR), we can drop the missing values upon their occurrence, but with Missing at Random (MAR) and Missing Not at Random (MNAR) data, this could potentially introduce bias to the model. Moreover, dropping MCAR values may seem safe at first, but, still, by dropping the samples we are reducing the size of the dataset. 
It is always better to keep the values than to discard them, in the end, the amount of the data plays a very important role in a data science project and its outcome.
Handle Missing Data:
1. Removing Data:
	>Listwise deletion:If missing values in some variable in the dataset is MCAR and the number of missing values is not very high,we can drop missing entries, i.e. we drop all the data for a particular observation if the variable of interest is missing.
	>Dropping variable:There are situations when the variable has a lot of missing values, in this case, if the variable is not a very important predictor for the target variable, the variable can be dropped completely. As a rule of thumb, when the data goes missing on 60–70 percent of the variable, dropping the variable should be considered.
2.Data Imputation:
	>Encoding missing variables in continuous features:When the variable is positive in nature, encoding missing entries as -1 works well for tree-based models. Tree-based models can account for missingness of data via encoded variables.
	>Encoding missing entry as another level of a categorical variable:This method also works best with tree-based models. Here, we modify the missing entries in a categorical variable as another level. Again, tree-based models can account for missingness with the help of a new level that represents missing values.
	>Mean/Median/Mode imputation:With this method, we impute the missing values with the mean or the median of some variable if it is continuous, and we impute with mode if the variable is categorical. This method is fast but reduces the variance of the data.
	>Predictive models for data imputation:This method can be very effective if correctly designed. The idea of this method is that we predict the value of the missing entry with the help of other features in the dataset. The most common prediction algorithms for imputation are Linear Regression and K-Nearest Neighbors.
	>Multiple Imputation:In Multiple Imputation, instead of imputing a single value for each missing entry we place there a set of values, which contain the natural variability. This method also uses predictive methods, but multiple times, creating different imputed datasets. Thereafter, created datasets analyzed and the single best dataset is created.

12. What is A/B testing
ANS: An AB test is an example of statistical hypothesis testing, a process whereby a hypothesis is made about the relationship between two data sets and those data sets are then compared against each other to determine if there is a statistically significant relationship or not.
Like any type of scientific testing, A/B testing is basically statistical hypothesis testing, or, in other words, statistical inference. It is an analytical method for making decisions that estimates population parameters based on sample statistics.The population refers to all the visitors coming to website (or specific group of pages), while the sample refers to the number of visitors that participated in the test.

13. Is mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice?
ANS: Using a mean for missing data is a bad idea, because:
	>Bad practice in general
	>If just estimating means: mean imputation preserves the mean of the observed data
	>Leads to an underestimate of the standard deviation
	>Distorts relationships between variables by “pulling” estimates of the correlation toward zero

14. What is linear regression in statistics?
ANS:
Linear regression is the next step up after correlation. It is used when we want to predict the value of a variable based on the value of another variable. The variable we want to predict is called the dependent variable (or sometimes, the outcome variable). The variable we are using to predict the other variable's value is called the independent variable (or sometimes, the predictor variable).

15. What are the various branches of statistics?
ANS: The two main branches of statistics are descriptive statistics and inferential statistics.
	>Descriptive Statistics:It organizes raw data into meaningful information.An house hold articles manufacturing company would like to know what people feel about their products. For that purpose, the company forms a team of people and tries to collect information from the public. The team of people formed by the company is trying to collect data from the public directly. 
	The data which is being collected directly from the public will always not be meaning full. Hence, the data which is being collected directly from the public has to be converted in to meaningful information. This is the work being done in this particular branch “ descriptive-statistics". That is,it focuses on collecting, summarizing and presenting set of data.
	>Inferential-statistics:It analyses sample data to draw conclusion about population. It analyses sample data to draw conclusion about population. Marketing research team of a company wants to know how far the people need a particular product manufactured by the company. There is one hundred thousand population in a particular city. 
	It is bit difficult to go and ask all one hundred thousand people, due to time consumption and other factors. Hence, it takes a sample of 1000 people to draw conclusion for the whole population. That is making general statement from the study of particular cases or any treatment of data, which leads to prediction or inference concerning a larger group of data.
